## Report of Programming Assignment 2

### Implemetation and Design

#### 1. [FLOW]

First, we extract the cone of a certain PO and then construct the coresponding CNF, so we use the function `Abc_NtkCreateCone`. Mind that there are pis both positive and negetive unate, so we need to include all PI(`fUseAllCis` set to 1).

We know that _F∧(¬F)∧(¬xi)_ would be *UNSAT* iff xi is positive unate. For negative unate, _F∧(¬F)∧(xi)_ would be *UNSAT*. So we now generate a CNF for PO, and generate a CNF for ¬PO by copying the former CNF while later assigning correct assumption value. We add clauses for all primary input(i.e. _F∧(¬F)∧(x1)∧(x2)∧(x3)..._), only unable certain xi and assign value when testing its unateness(like assume `x2=1`). In this way, the CNF for each cone only needs to generate once.

#### 2. [DATA STRUCTURE]

I use `abc`'s original network structure to construct CNF and solve SAT, but I use C++ vector and map to record if a pi is unate or not. Using map may probably low down the run time of sorting the pi ID.

#### 3. [Optimization]

If a pi doesn't appear in the function of the po(use `Abc_NodeIsTravIdCurrent` to check), it is surely both positive and negetive unate. In this case, we don't need to solve SAT.

### Experiment

time of executing `lsv_print_pounate` on my PC

Case | Mine(s) | Ref(s) | `print_unate`(s)
------------ | ------------ | ------------- | -------------
arbiter | 6.32 | 5.83 | 5.05
cavlc | 0.04 | 0.03 | 0.01
ctrl | 0.02 | 0.01 | 0.01
dec | 0.06 | 0.14 | 0.01
i2c | 0.11 | 0.12 | 0.02
int2float | 0.02 | 0.02 | 0.01
mem_ctrl | 180.74 | 180.42 | 17.91
priority | 0.10 | 0.18 | 0.07
router | 0.02 | 0.08 | 0.04
adder | 6.99 | 3.28 | 0.22
bar | 2.39 | 2.95 | 23.31
max | 68.26 | 63.31 | X
sin | 18.25 | 14.27 | X

### Discussions

- What are the differences between random control and arithmetic circuits? Which category is more challenging?

According to the experiment result above, arithmetic circuits seem to ve more challenging. However, random control may also invoke extreme cases, like mem_ctrl.

- How does your implementation compared to the BDD-based command `print_unate` in ABC?

As expected, BDD works well on rather simple cases(random control). But as the experiment result shows, when the circuit becomes more complicated(arithmetic), the execution time blows up.

