# Programming Assignment #2
## Testing Unateness of Primary Outputs

* Data Structures Used in ABC
    * Abc_Ntk_t
    * Aig_Man_t
    * Cnf_Dat_t

* API Used
    * Abc_NtkToDar()
    * Cnf_Derive()
    * Cnf_DataDup()
    * Cnf_DataLift()
    * Cnf_DataWriteIntoSolver()
    * sat_solver_addclause()
    * sat_solver_add_buffer_enable()
    * toLitCond()
    * sat_solver_solve()

* Data Structures Implemented
    * unordered_map <string, int> which maps the name of the primary input to the unateness type.


* Algorithm Flow

```
function lsv_print_pounate(Circuit N)
    for each Primary output Po
        Obtain single output network Ns with respect to Po by Transitive fan in cone
        Convert Ns to Aig network Naig
        Derive CNF C from Aig network Naig

        Duplicate C and lift the variable to represent F'
        write F and F' into SAT solver

        for each Ns Primary input Pi
            Add value constraint in F and F' with enable variable clause into SAT solver

        
        for each Ns Primary input Pi
            Set assumption of F and F' output
            Set assumption of cofactor variable
            Set assumption of same value constraint
            Solve SAT for positive unate test
            Flip cofactor assumption
            Solve SAT for negative unate test
            Record the unateness type of current Pi into map
        
        for each N Primary input Pi
            if Pi is not find in map
                Pi is both positive unate and nagative unate
            else
                Unateness type recored in map
        
        Print out results
```

* Optimization Over the Baseline Approach
    * Actually, I followed the baseline method to implemented my program. There is not big difference between. But I have tried some to improve the efficiency
        * When testing positive unate and negative unate, the assumption can be reused only to flip the cofactor or the function output. These two way sometimes differ 2 times more efficiency. This may caused by the conflict based learning SAT solving technique, so the it may differ from case to case.

        * When generating the trasitive fan in cone circuit of certain primary output, it is unnecessary to include the primary inputs which is the don't cares of this primary output. By eliminating the primary inputs, the circuit size is reduced and thus the generated SAT is reduce. As a result, the efficiency improves. This can be doned by setting a viariable in function Abc_NtkCreateCone()


* Optional Discussion
    * Can your implementation solve the remaining 7 test cases (possibly with a longer time limit)?
        * Probably can't, the SAT based method is dependent of the internal variable. If the circuit is too complicated, the generated SAT will be very large (containg too many clauses or too many variables).
        
    * How does your implementation compared to the BDD-based command 'print_unate' in ABC?
        * The SAT-based method is by creating the Aig network and convert to CNF then SAT. It is highly depedent of all internal nodes. However, the BDD-based method may not consider all internal nodes, so it is probably dependent of circuit primary input numbers.

    * What are the differences between random control and arithmetic circuits? Which category is more challenging?
        * The random control circuits usually have more Pis and Pos, but the calculation is simpler (maybe path from Pi to Po is shorter). On the other hand, the arithmetic circuits usually have less input, but the calculation is more complicated. For SAT based method, I think arithmetic circuits is more challenging since the size of the generated SAT is dependent of the vairables (more complicated, more internal variables).

    
