# Implementation
My implementation is stated as follows:
1. For each PO, the cone is created (*Abc_NtkCreateCone*).
1. The cone is then converted to an AIG (*Abc_NtkToDar*) and the CNF corresponding to the AIG is derived (*Cnf_Derive*).
1. The CNF is duplicated (*Cnf_DataDup*) so that we have two networks for both positive cofactor and negative cofactor.
1. *Cnf_DataLift* is used to distinguish between the variables of the two networks.
1. Two sets of clauses are added (*sat_solver_addclause*):
    1. the clauses of the networks.
    1. the clauses asserting the corresponding input variables of two networks are equivalent (*sat_solver_addvar* for adding variables enabling or disabling the clauses, *sat_solver_add_buffer_enable* for adding such clauses).
1. Add assumptions and solve (*toLitCond* for obtaining literals, *sat_solver_solve* for solving SAT problems): for each input of the AIG, add assumptions to make the variables of the current input equal 1 and 0 for the positive and the negative cofactor networks, respectively. Add assumptions to disable and enable the equivalence of the current input and the other inputs, respectively. To prove positive (negative) unateness, add assunptions to make the output of the positive cofactor network equal 0 (1) and the output of the negative cofactor network equal 1 (0).

Note that, by setting *fUseAllCis* flag, one can make *Abc_NtkCreateCone* create the cone involving all the inputs of the network or only the PIs of the PO (denoted by ALL and CONE repectively in the sequal). In the following table, one can see that ALL only solves 11 out of 13 cases within the time limit, whereas TRANS. finishes all the cases (the numbers are runtime in seconds).


| Benchmark | ALL    | CONE    |
|-----------|--------|---------|
| arbiter   |  7.885 |   7.982 |
| cavlc     |  0.075 |   0.122 |
| ctrl      |  0.084 |   0.102 |
| dec       |  0.383 |   0.444 |
| i2c       |  0.541 |   0.218 |
| int2float |  0.108 |   0.069 |
| mem_ctrl  |   >300 | 224.801 |
| priority  |  0.228 |   0.259 |
| router    |  0.096 |   0.102 |
| adder     |  5.196 |   4.298 |
| bar       |  4.235 |   4.227 |
| max       | 81.807 |  82.287 |
| sin       |   >300 |  16.913 |