# LSV PA2 Report
Cheng-Han Hsieh r08943154 

##  Unateness of Primary Outputs
Given an AIG circuit, prove the unateness of all inputs to all outputs.


## Method
A single output function f is positive unate corresponding to an input x if fx' -> fx.
We prove the property by finding a counter example using SAT solver.
If (fx') (fx)' has a satisfying assignment, then it is not positive unate.
Otherwise, it is positive unate.
Similarly, negative unate can be proved by this method.

## Algorithm
1. Given an AIG f, convert it into a CNF formula C_pos.
2. Duplicate the CNF formula as C_neg
3. Add a clause (a -> (x_pos = x_neg) for each primary input of the two CNF formula, meaning that the "a" variable controls the equivalence of two inputs.
4. For each output f, and for each input x, prove the unateness by incremental SAT solving
   - Assume the corresponding "a" to be 0 and others to be 1
   - Assume x_pos = 1, x_neg = 1, f_pos = b, f_neg = b'$
   - Solve SAT problem by this assumption
   - (b = 0 if positive unate, b = 1 if negative unate)

## Improvement
For some output f, if x is not its support, the result is both positive unate and negative unate.
However, to prove an UNSAT is slow for the SAT solver.
The solving can be improved by extracting the transitive fanin cone of a single primary output.
This removes some unused primary inputs and some redundent clauses for a single output.

## API Usage
The APIs in this PA can be found in this [wiki page](https://github.com/NTU-ALComLab/LSV-PA/wiki/Reasoning-with-SAT-solvers).

## Discussion
- The original implementation can solve 11 out of 13 cases in the evaluation. After the improvement, all 13 cases can be solved in 300 seconds.
- In the 20 testcases, 9/10 control circuits can be solved and 4/10 arithmetic circuits can be solved in 300 seconds. (can further solve square.aig in about 15 min.) The structure of arithmetic circuit is harder than control circuits for SAT solving. The reason might be that arithmetic circuits have more data dependency of outputs and inputs.



