
# PA2 Report

林子聖, R08943090, tzyysang@gmail.com

### Implementation Overview

The program is comprised of three parts, (1) constructing of CNF formula, (2) incremental SAT solving, (3) writing results.

### CNF Formula Derivation

The function unateness problem can be seen as a SAT solving problem of justifying the positive and negative cofactors of a function.

I try to write down a universal formula for the entire problem, that is to solve unatess for all POs w.r.t. to all PIs with single SAT instance. The CNF formula contains two parts, one is for selecting POs and the other is for confining PIs. There will be *n+m+1* control variables in the formula, controlling the POs, PIs and changing between positive/negtive unateness respectively.

In the implementation, I used *Cnf_Derive()* to derive the CNF presentation of the function, then duplicate it so that one is used as the positive cofactor and the other is the negative cofactor. And then the PO variable in the drived CNF formula is combined with control variables to build PO clauses. Finally, I used *sat_solver_add_buffer_enable()* to add clauses for all PIs.

### Incremental SAT Solving

For the *i*-th PO and *j*-th PI, the assumption of SAT solving is set as following:

Note that the selected PI *x_i* and *y_j* is also assigned in this step for cofactor operations.

### Evaluation

The experimental results shows that this method can not successfully solve all 13 benchmarks in time. This might be due to the larger SAT problem size in comparison to dividing the circuit into smaller cones.
