## Report of LSV PA2 by R09943089 楊焌佑
### Some self-defined functions
* `void Duplicate_allClauses(sat_solver * p, Cnf_Dat_t * pCnf)`
    * Suppose CNF of an aig circuit with one PO has been written into SAT solver p by pCnf, duplicate CNF clauses of pCnf and write into p.
    * This function is modified version of `Sat_SolverDoubleClauses()` in satSolver.h.
    * After running this function, every clause in pCnf will be contained twice with variable shifting. We can say one represents _F_ and the other one represents _F'_.
    * Use `sat_solver_setnvars()` : extend the solver to depend on two sets of variables .
    * Use`sat_solver_addclause()`: add clause into sat solver.
* `int Write_output_node_clause(sat_solver * pSat, Cnf_Dat_t * pCnf)`
    * To make _F_ and _F'_ that `Duplicate_allClauses()` produces has complement PO.
    *  Add 2 clauses: (PO literal of _F_) and (inverted PO literal of _F'_).
    *  Use `toLitCond()` and `pVarNums[]` to get literal of PO.
    *  Normally, function return 0. Some cases(_e.g._ constant node) cause some problems when adding clause, function return 1.
* `void Sort_Id(vector<Ntk_pi> &v)`
    * Sort PIs by their Id before printing output.
* `vector<pi> add_pi_assumption(sat_solver * pSat, Cnf_Dat_t * pCnf)`
    * Build an array to keep information of dependent PIs for PO, including ID, variable and assumption variable in sat solver, binate, and unate.
    * Assumption variable is for incremental sat solving. For each PI, it will add two clauses for clause (_v_ + _p_=_p'_) with _v_ is assumption variable and  _p_ and _p'_ are PI of _F_ and _F'_ respectively.
### Main function
#### Here is a flow of main function for each PO with 3 stages
#### 1.Building Stage
* Use `Abc_NtkCreateCone()` to create cone for a PO.
* Use `Abc_ObjFaninC0()` and `Abc_ObjXorFaninC()` to complement PO in cone network correctly.
* Use `Abc_NtkToDar()` to transform `Abc_Ntk_t` into `Aig_Man_t`.
* Use `Cnf_Derive()` to get Cnf form of cone network.
* Use `Cnf_DataWriteIntoSolver()` to write Cnf into sat solver.
* Use `Duplicate_allClauses()` to duplicate all clauses into sat solver.
* Use `Write_output_node_clause()` to complement two circuits in sat solver, and it will return `RetValue`.
* If `RetValue` is `true`, which means that all PIs are independent to PO, jump to stage 3.
* If `RetValue` is `false`, the next step is incremental sat solving( stage 2).
#### 2.Sat Solving Stage
* `add_pi_assumption()` will return `PI_list` for keeping PI information.
* Build assumption array `assumptions` for incremental sat solving, the first and second elements can assume PI of _F_ and _F'_ positive or not for cofactor. The other elements are assumption variables for PIs to assume some PIs is equal in _F_ or _F'_ or not.
* For each PI, modified `assumptions` every round for testing positive and negative unate, then call `sat_solver_solve( pSat, assumptions, assumptions + 2 + Aig_ManCiNum(pCnf->pMan), 0, 0, 0, 0 )` for sat solving. Keep information in `PI_list`.
#### 3.Output Stage
* Match ID and name of PI in `PI_list` between cone and original network because ID may be changed after`Abc_NtkCreateCone()` , and then keep all information needed into `NtkPI_list`.
* For some independent PIs, their data are not in `PI_list`, so we will create new element which is positive unate and negative unate at same time, and `push_back` it into `NtkPI_list`.
* `Sort_Id(NtkPI_list)` to get an array sorted by ID.
* Output results in `NtkPI_list`.